[Music]
both Jack and I are working with the
cameras taking stills so that we can
like to be piecing together make a time
lapse but not show the guys that works
it's going to look like it just opens up
to get the skin off it doesn't easily
peel off like like a glove does so our
skin is attached to everything
underneath by all these extra little
bits of soft tissue layers so you go
along lots of little incisions and the
whole thing will effectively come off
like a like a bodysuit and if you cut us
open you get a lot of this stuff this
stuff here is the fat if you look in
cross-section there's just a really fine
little layer just under so you've got
the skin very thin layer and then fat
and straight under that's the muscle
they're ambush hunters they lay in wait
they pounce out and it's all with this
look at this muscle let's go swim right
up here with a knee knee clam juice
wasn't right down here and this is just
strong people talk about retractile
claws they're not retract our claws so
it basically pushes them out when it
needs it which is when it's climbing or
when it's grappling hold of prey
normally in a relaxed state the tendons
hold it there and then it there's a
tendon underneath that pulls it out and
it is projected forwards here's a very
neat mechanism
the last bit is taking this whole skin
off via the head and George's going
around actually cutting around the ears
the skin has to be done as as perfectly
as possible so you cut around basically
is then the whole thing comes up up here
with the neck muscles and the jaw
muscles deliver very pronounced you can
sort of see there here you sort go along
as well very graceful Zoar grass isle
very streamlined like an f1 car you get
to here and it's just like a Land Rover
it's just a massive chunky solid neck
solid muscles hit that all that business
aimed yeah so you don't want too much
muscle on the important locomotion bits
because it would require too much energy
to move those limbs about but obviously
when you're killing prey you've got to
have a bit of muscle there and a bit of
power or else you're not going to subdue
the prey and you're not going to be able
to kill it it's weight holding there is
the temporalis muscle and that's the one
that allows us to open and close our
mouths and then I wasn't very big we
haven't got a huge amount of bite force
but without you and now anything about
this animal you can tell it's got huge
bite force and a huge potential to chew
so George has cut all weed in a throat
that your care the larynx will run up to
the base of the tongue under the jaw and
this think popped out this is the Tigers
tongue they look like their hair like
structures but the keratin is just a
really reinforce just how tough they are
i dissected lots of primates i've never
dissected big cats before just nice to
see where things fit it's very cool for
biologists so we're just taking out all
the abdominal organs you've got the
stomach you've got the liver you've got
the large intestines small intestine the
kidneys will be the bank somewhere it's
this big dark organ here that's hanging
over all the other organs in the the
abdomen this is the liver really
important for breaking down foods for
dispersing toxins the sorting factory of
the of the body effectively what we've
got here is a lovely layer connective
tissue and it's really vascularized
which means there's a lots of blood
vessels in there lots of are trees lots
of veins even down to capillaries if you
hold up to the light which is lovely
that's just stomach if you open it up
you will see this probably still its
last meal big chunk of meat in there
somewhere this is partly decomposed her
last meal her last supper thirdly
so we've measured the intestines and
they were 8.29 meters long which seems a
lot is that average retire do you think
science in action so as George is
cutting away the diaphragm you can see
up into the chest and you can just see
the heart that is a lovely big heart and
that's exactly what you need if you need
to pump blood through as you're chasing
down prey the heart and the area
surrounding it it's like Clapham
Junction you've got everything coming
into this one central hub is that the
busiest part of the body you've got this
lovely elastic walled artery that's the
aorta it's the biggest artery in the
body and it's elastic likes it needs to
open that's because they've got really
high pressure oxygenated blood being
pumped all around the bodies from the
whiskers down to the toes it's going
everywhere and next to it you've got the
main vein in anybody that's the the vena
cava and as you cut the heart in half
you can see the different ventricles the
different chambers
I'll let George do the chopping we took
by the heart being just a muscle and we
sort of don't quite understand when we
say that just how complex it really is
not only is it got this massively thick
wall for the the oxygenator side the
thin wall for the deal to me aside
because these amazing chambers the two
ventricles here in the two atria the top
if you think all this blood coming in at
high pressure and squeezing out and
squeezed had to not backflow each other
mater is awesome he's got these special
little adapted valves here one part
there one part there and one part there
there's called a tricuspid valve so the
whole thing's curled around it's like
three little pockets so as the blood all
flows in it can't flow back again it
stops backflow when the whole thing is
closed got these lovely little pieces
holding all together in the same way
that parachute is kept open with the
strings and the strut the whole thing is
kept in perfect working order
[Music]